---
title: (Reading) PRINCIPLES OF NEURAL SCIENCE - Genes and Behavior
tags: [Neuroscience]
---

## Heritability
In a variation of the twin study model, the Minnesota Twin Study examined identical twins that were separated early in life and raised in different households. Despite sometimes great differences in their environment, twins shared predispositions (倾向) for the same psychiatric (精神的) disorders and even tended to share personality traits, like extraversion (外向性). This study provides considerable evidence that genetic variation (遗传变异) contributes to normal human differences, not just to disease states.

Heritability for human diseases and behavioral traits is usually substantially (实质上) less than 100%, demonstrating that the environment is an important factor in acquiring diseases or traits. Estimates of heritability for many neurological, psychiatric, and behavioral traits from twin studies are around 50%, but heritability can be higher or lower for particular traits. Although studies of identical twins and other kinships (亲属关系) provide support for the idea that human behavior has a hereditary component, they do not tell us which genes are important, let alone how specific genes influence behavior.

## Genome
Genes are made of DNA, and it is DNA that is passed on from one generation to the next. In most circumstances, exact copies of each gene are provided to all cells in an organism (生物) as well as to succeeding generations (后代) through DNA replication. The rare exceptions to this general rule — new (de novo 从头) mutations (突变) that are introduced into the DNA of either germline (种系) or somatic cells (体细胞) and that play an important role in disease risk. DNA is made of two strands, each of which has a deoxyribose-phosphate backbone (脱氧核糖磷酸骨架) attached to a series of four subunits (一系列四个亚基): the nucleotides adenine 核苷酸腺嘌呤 (A), guanine 鸟嘌呤 (G), thymine 胸腺嘧啶 (T), and cytosine 胞嘧啶 (C). The two strands are paired so that an A on one strand is always paired with a T on the complementary strand, and a G with a C. This complementarity ensures accurate copying of DNA during DNA replication and drives transcription (转录) of DNA into lengths of RNA called transcripts (转录本). Given that nearly all of the genome (基因组) is double-stranded, bases (碱基) or base pairs (碱基对) are used interchangeably (可互换) as a unit of measurement. A segment of the genome encompassing a thousand base pairs is referred to as 1 kilobase 千碱基 (1 kb) or 1 kilobase pair (1 kbp), whereas a million base pairs are referred to as 1 megabase 兆碱基 (1 Mb) or 1 megabase pairs (1 Mbp). RNA differs from DNA in that it is single-stranded, has a ribose (核糖) rather than a deoxyribose backbone (脱氧核糖骨架), and uses the nucleoside base uridine (U) in the place of thymine.

In the human genome (人类基因组), approximately 20,000 genes encode protein products (编码蛋白质产物), which are generated by translation of the linear messenger RNA (mRNA 信使RNA) sequence into a linear polypeptide 多肽 (protein) sequence composed of amino acids (氨基酸). A typical protein-coding gene (蛋白质编码基因) consists of a coding region, which is translated into the protein, and noncoding regions. The coding region (编码区) is usually arranged in small coding segments called exons (外显子), which are separated by noncoding stretches called introns (内含子). The introns are deleted from the mRNA before its translation into protein.

Many functional RNA transcripts do not encode proteins. In fact, in the human genome, over 40,000 noncoding transcripts have been characterized as compared with approximately 20,000 protein-coding genes. Such genes include ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs 核糖体RNA) and transfer RNAs (tRNAs 转运RNA), essential components of the machinery for mRNA translation. Additional non-coding RNAs (ncRNA) include long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), arbitrarily defined as longer than 200 bp in length, that do not encode proteins but can have roles in gene regulation (基因调控); small noncoding RNAs of several types, including small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs 小核RNA), that guide mRNA splicing (拼接); and microRNAs (miRNAs 微小RNA) that pair with complementary sequences in specific mRNAs to inhibit (抑制) their translation.

Each cell in the body contains the DNA for every gene but only expresses a specific subset of the genes as RNAs. The part of the gene that is transcribed into RNA is flanked (侧翼) by noncoding DNA regions that may be bound by other proteins, including transcription factors (转录因子), to regulate gene expression. These sequence motifs (序列基序) include promoters (启动子), enhancers (增强子), silencers (沉默子), and insulators (绝缘子), which together allow accurate expression of the RNA in the right cells at the right time. Promoters are typically found close to the beginning of the region to be transcribed (待转录区域); enhancers, silencers, and insulators may reside at a distance from the gene being regulated. Each type of cell has a unique complement of DNA-binding proteins (DNA结合蛋白) that interact with promoters and other regulatory sequences (调控序列) to regulate gene expression and the resulting cellular properties (由此产生的细胞特性).

The brain expresses a greater number of genes than any other organ in the body, and within the brain, diverse populations of neurons (不同的神经元群体) express different groups of genes. The selective gene expression (选择性基因表达) controlled by promoters, other regulatory sequences, and the DNA-binding proteins that interact with them permits a fixed number of genes to generate a vastly larger number of neuronal cell types (神经元细胞类型) and connections in the brain.

Although genes specify the initial development and properties of the nervous system, the experience of an individual and the resulting activity in specific neural circuits can itself alter the expression of genes. In this way, environmental influences are incorporated into the structure and function of neural circuits. Some of the principal goals of genetic studies are to unravel (揭示) the ways that individual genes (个体基因) affect biological processes, the ways that networks of genes (基因网络) influence each other’s activity, and the ways that genes interact with the environment.

The genes in a cell are arranged in an orderly fashion (有序的方式) on long, linear (长而线性) stretches of DNA called chromosomes (染色体). Each gene in the human genome is reproducibly (可重复地) located at a characteristic position (locus) on a specific chromosome, and this genetic “address” can be used to associate biological traits (生物学特征) with a gene’s effects. Most multicellular animals (including worms, fruit flies, and mice, as well as humans) are diploid (二倍体); every somatic cell (体细胞) carries two complete sets of chromosomes, one from the mother and the other from the father.

Humans have about 20,000 genes but only 46 chromosomes: 22 pairs of autosomes 常染色体 (chromosomes that are present in both males and females) and two sex chromosomes (two X chromosomes in females, one X and one Y chromosome in males). Each parent supplies one copy of each autosome to the diploid offspring. Each parent also supplies one X chromosome to female (XX) offspring, but XY males inherit their single X chromosome from their mothers and their single Y chromosome from their fathers. Sex-linked inheritance (性连锁遗传) was discovered in fruit flies by Thomas Hunt Morgan in 1910. This pattern of sex-linked inheritance associated with the single X chromosome has been highly significant in human genetic studies, where certain X-linked genetic diseases (X连锁遗传病) are commonly observed only in males but are genetically transmitted from mothers to their sons.

In addition to the genes on chromosomes, a very small number of an organism’s genes are transmitted through mitochondria (线粒体), cytoplasmic organelles (细胞质细胞器) that carry out metabolic processes. Mitochondria in all children come from the ovum (卵子) and therefore are transmitted from the mother to the child. Certain human disorders, including some neuromuscular degenerative diseases (神经肌肉退行性疾病), some forms of intellectual disability, and some forms of deafness, are caused by mutations (突变) in the mitochondrial DNA.

## Genotype and Phenotype
The two copies of a particular autosomal gene in an individual are called alleles (等位基因). If the two alleles are identical, the individual is said to be homozygous (纯合子) at that locus. If the alleles vary because of mutations, the individual is heterozygous (杂合子) at that locus.

A population (群体) can have a large number of alleles of a gene; for example, a single gene that affects human eye color, called OCA2, can have alleles that encode shades of blue, green, hazel, or brown. Because of this variation, it is important to distinguish the genotype of an organism (its genetic makeup) and the phenotype (its appearance). In the broad sense (广义), a genotype is the entire set of alleles (整套等位基因) forming the genome of an individual (个体基因组); in the narrow sense, it is the specific alleles of one gene. By contrast (对比), a phenotype is a description of a whole organism, and is a result of the expression of the organism’s genotype in a particular environment.

If a mutant phenotype is expressed only when both alleles of a gene are mutated, the resulting phenotype is called recessive (隐性的). This can occur if individuals are homozygous (纯合子) for the mutant allele (突变等位基因) or if they are carrying a different damaging allele in a given gene on each of their chromosomes (so-called compound heterozygote 复合杂合子). Recessive mutations (隐性突变) usually result from loss or reduction of a functional protein. Recessive inheritance of mutant traits (突变性状的隐性遗传) is commonly observed in humans and experimental animals.

## 脱氧核糖核苷酸
脱氧核糖核苷酸（deoxyribonucleotide）是脱氧核糖核酸（DNA）的小分子单体。每个脱氧核糖核苷酸包括三个部分：一个碱基、一个脱氧核糖和一个磷酸基团。

## 纯合子
纯合子（Homozygote），亦称同型合子，在遗传学上，二倍体生物的某个基因座上拥有相同的等位基因，而基因型和基因的表现型也是完全相同和对等。例如“AA”、“OO”。

## 杂合子
杂合子（Heterozygote），也称异型合子，在遗传学上是拥有两种不同等位基因的二倍体生物或基因型，例如“Aa”或是“Bb”。在显性遗传的原则下，若有一个等位基因属于显性，则表现型将以此显性基因为主。

## X连锁隐性遗传
X连锁隐性遗传指的是一种性状或遗传病有关的基因位于X染色体上，这些基因的性质是隐性的，并随着X染色体的行为而传递，其遗传方式称为X连锁隐性遗传（X-linked recessive inheritance，XR）。X连锁隐性遗传致病隐性突变基因在X染色体上，杂合子女性不得病，为携带者，只有当女性为纯合子时才得病，而半合子男性即可得病。以隐性方式遗传时，由于女性有两条X染色体，当隐性致病基因在杂合状态（XAXa）时，隐性基因控制的性状或遗传病不显示出来，这样的女性是表型正常的致病基因携带者。在男性细胞中，只有一条X染色体，Y染色体上缺少同源节段，所以只要X染色体上有一个隐性致病基因（XaY）就发病。这样，男性的细胞中只有成对的等位基因中的一个基因，故称为半合子（Hemizygote）。

## References
- [PRINCIPLES OF NEURAL SCIENCE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principles_of_Neural_Science)
- [脱氧核糖核苷酸](https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-cn/脱氧核糖核苷酸)
- [纯合子](https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-cn/纯合子)
- [杂合子](https://zh.wikipedia.org/zh-cn/杂合子)
- [X连锁隐性遗传](https://baike.baidu.com/item/X连锁隐性遗传/1995679)
